{\rtf1\ansi\deff22 {\fonttbl{\f66\fcharset0 Courier Final Draft;}}{\stylesheet{\f22 \sbasedon222\snext0 Normal;}{\s1\li2160\ri1500\f66\sb0 \sbasedon0\snext1 GENERAL;}{\s2\caps\li2160\ri1500\f66\sb480 \sbasedon0\snext3 SCENE HEADING;}{\s3\li2160\ri1500\f66\sb240 \sbasedon0\snext3 ACTION;}{\s4\caps\li5040\ri1860\f66\sb240 \sbasedon0\snext6 CHARACTER NAME;}{\s5\li4320\ri4380\f66\sb0 \sbasedon0\snext6 PARENTHETICAL;}{\s6\li3600\ri3660\f66\sb0 \sbasedon0\snext3 DIALOG;}{\s7\caps\li7920\ri2080\f66\sb240 \sbasedon0\snext2 TRANSITION;}{\s8\caps\li2160\ri1500\f66\sb480 \sbasedon0\snext3 SHOT;}{\s9\caps\li2160\ri1500\f66\sb0 \sbasedon0\snext3 CAST LIST;}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\ftnrestart\fracwidth \sectd \linemod0\linex0\cols1\endnhere \margl0\margr0\paperw12240{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Fade in:}{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 \par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb480\f66\fs24\sl180\s2\fi0\ri1440\li2160 EXT. Mast farm - nIGHT\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Wheat fields. Etched in darkness and moonlight. For the moment it's calm.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \b\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 TITLE: Nebraska, 1875.}{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 \par A WOMAN CRIES OUT, drawing our attention to a scant farm house in the distance.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb480\f66\fs24\sl180\s2\fi0\ri1440\li2160 EXT. Mast house - cONTINUOUS\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Perched on the house's front stair is HENRY MAST. He's 11 years old and anxious as anything. \par His mother's intermittent screams emanate from the house.\par Nearby his father WALTER MAST, 40's, smokes a pipe. Keeps his back to his son. Trying to hide the worry in his weathered face.\par More screams from inside.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 Henry\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 Was it like this with me?\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Walter looks to Henry. His lack of response confirms it wasn't. Something is wrong.\par Then, silence.\par Walter lowers his pipe. Faces the front door. Waiting. Standing in the painful silence.\par He can't take it anymore -- lunges forward -- bursts in the front door --\par Henry strains to see past his father. \par His pregnant MOTHER lies motionless on the kitchen table.\par A weary DOCTOR approaches Walter with trembling hands.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 Doctor\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 I'm sorry, Walter.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 He can barely pat Walter on the shoulder as he passes by.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 \par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Walter's emotions overwhelm him. He folds in on himself, dropping to his knees before his dead wife.\par Henry watches from the doorway. His eyes welling with tears.\par }{\pard\plain \qr \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s7\fi0\ri2020\li7920 Fade out:\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Fade in:}{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 \par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb480\f66\fs24\sl180\s2\fi0\ri1440\li2160 EXT. Mast farm - dAY\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Under grey skies. Walter hacks at the earth with a shovel. Stone-faced. Focused only on his task. Dig.\par }{\pard\plain \qr \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s7\fi0\ri2020\li7920 CuT TO:\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb480\f66\fs24\sl180\s2\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Later\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Walter and Henry stand before a fresh grave bearing two wooden crosses. There are no words.\par }{\pard\plain \qr \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s7\fi0\ri2020\li7920 FADE OUT:\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb480\f66\fs24\sl180\s2\fi0\ri1440\li2160 iNT. Mast HOUSE - walter's bedroom - mORNING\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Sunrise spills through an open window. A soft breeze tickles the curtains.\par Somewhere in the mess on the bed lies Walter. A farmer ought to be up by now. \par }{\pard\plain \ql \b\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 TITLE: Eight months later}{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 \par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 HENRY (o.S.)\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 Pa!\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Walter groans.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 HENRY (o.S.)\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 Pa, we're going to be late.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Walter swings his legs out of bed. An empty whiskey bottle falls to the floor. Not that he noticed.\par Walter's face hangs heavy. Tired. Unshaven.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb480\f66\fs24\sl180\s2\fi0\ri1440\li2160 EXT. Mast HOUSE - DAY\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 The fields look fallow. Henry drives their farm wagon, and their one horse, up to the front of the house.\par Henry's shirt is tucked in and his hair is combed. His version of Sunday's best when you can't afford more.\par Walter exits the house, tucking his shirt in as he goes.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 HENRY\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 Come on!\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Walter climbs into the wagon at his own pace.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb480\f66\fs24\sl180\s2\fi0\ri1440\li2160 iNT. Modest frontier church - DAY\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 The church is shoulder-to-shoulder as PARISHIONERS sing }{\pard\plain \ql \ul\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 All Creatures Of Our God And King}{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 .\par Perched in the front pew and singing louder than anyone is LOUIS SUTTER, early 40's. His opulent clothes hinting at arrogance. There's no dirt under this man's nails.\par To Louis's sides are his wife ELIZABETH, late 30's, and daughters ANNA, 9, and MARY, 11.\par Mary takes her eyes off her hymnal just long enough to catch Henry staring at her from another pew, a few rows back. \par Henry doesn't look away. Just offers a soft smile that Mary returns.\par Walter sings from the doorway with the same lack of enthusiasm he's given the rest of the day.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb480\f66\fs24\sl180\s2\fi0\ri1440\li2160 EXT. Modest frontier church - DAY\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Parishioners vacate the church. Walter chats with a group of fellow FARMERS.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 grim farmer\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 Heard he bought another one.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 woEFUL farmer\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 Where?\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 grim farmer\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 Sarpy county.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 Neighbor\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 Sarpy... He's out to own the whole territory. Nebraska even.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 WaLTER\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 Man's got means. What can you do?\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 Neighbor\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 Tell you what I'd like to do--\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Louis exits the church, glad-handing everyone as he goes.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 Neighbor\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 Look at that peacock. Like he's president or something.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Louis passes by. His steely gaze locks with Walter's.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 Neighbor\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 Be a cold day in hell before he gets my farm.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Walter can't pull his uneasy eyes from Louis.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb480\f66\fs24\sl180\s2\fi0\ri1440\li2160 iNT. small town bank - DAY\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Walter sits across the desk from a BANK OFFICIAL who can't stop wringing his hands.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 BANK OFFICIAL\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 I'd really like to help. I really would...\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 WaLTER\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 I'm not asking for a hand-out, George. It's been a tough season. I just need more time.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 Bank official\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 You've already exceeded the grace period. Twice.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 WALTER\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 I know--\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 BANK OFFICIAL\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 You've accrued penalties that frankly it doesn't appear you're capable of recompensing.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 WALTER\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 I know--\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 BANK OFFICIAL\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 If you're unable to make payment by month's end you're going to default on your mortgage and the bank will be forced to foreclose. Do you understand what I'm saying? We'll take your farm, Walter.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 This hits Walter hard.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb480\f66\fs24\sl180\s2\fi0\ri1440\li2160 EXT. Mast FARM - DAY\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Walter stops his wagon in front of the house. A moment passes as he take stock of his situation.\par He grabs a whiskey bottle and knocks it back. Takes a long hard look at his farm.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 WaLTER\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 Henry!\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 No response.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 WALTER\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 Boy!\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Nothing. Where is he?\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb480\f66\fs24\sl180\s2\fi0\ri1440\li2160 eXT. prairie - DAy\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 A kite. Flying high over the prairie. Below there's laughter.\par Mary wrestles with the kite line. It's windy enough that the kite keeps pulling at her hands.\par She trades smiles with Henry.\par -- a gust of wind grabs the kite -- jerks Mary to her toes --\par Henry springs into action. Grabs her. \par Their weight too much, the kite line SNAPS and they fall to the ground in a heap.\par They're face-to-face. Smiles and awkwardness. If they were older this would be where they'd kiss. Instead --\par -- they look to the sky. Mary's kite floats away forever.\par Suddenly Mary bursts out laughing and leaps to her feet. \par Henry watches her dance to music only she can hear. Gliding across the prairie without a care in the world. Henry smiles.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb480\f66\fs24\sl180\s2\fi0\ri1440\li2160 EXT. Mast HOUSE - sunset\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Henry approaches the house with a contented smile. Until he gets close enough to see --\par Walter is on the porch. Smoking his pipe. On his way to drunk.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 WALTER\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 Where you been?\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 HENRY\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 Out.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Henry blasts past him. Letting the door slam after him.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 WALTER\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 You missed your chores!\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Walter doesn't go after him. Like always.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb480\f66\fs24\sl180\s2\fi0\ri1440\li2160 eXT. Neighbor farm - DAY\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Walter's wagon enters the long dusty lane to his neighbor's farm. \par As he nears the house he spots an unexpected sight: Neighbor packing his wagon.\par Neighbor is visibly upset.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 WALTER\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 What's going on here?\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 NEIGHBOR\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 I didn't have a choice. \par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Walter looks to the house where Louis is directing MEN. Walter realizes: Neighbor sold his farm.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 NEIGHBOR\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 I got a family to think about.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 WALTER\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 What did he offer?\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 NEIGHBOR\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 Enough. He offered enough.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 WALTER\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Neighbor lifts his WIFE and TWO DAUGHTERS into the wagon. Then climbs in himself.\par Walter is incensed. Betrayed.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 WALTER\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 I never thought you'd be the sort to cut and run. Well go ahead. Scurry back to Kansas, you gutless cur. See if you can't get work making womens' dresses cuz you sure as hell ain't no granger.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Neighbor takes the abuse. He couldn't feel much worse anyway. \par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 NEIGHBOR\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 There's nothing here for me. Nothing for you either. Time to move on.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Neighbor flicks the reigns. His wagon ambles off.\par Walter can feel Louis's eyes on him. Staring at him with fixed interest. Walter meets his gaze. Two titans of will in a silent stand-off.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb480\f66\fs24\sl180\s2\fi0\ri1440\li2160 eXT. mast farm - dAY\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 The sun blazes overhead. Walter is in the field, struggling to run a plow behind his horse.\par Louis's carriage rustles down the farm lane. \par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb480\f66\fs24\sl180\s2\fi0\ri1440\li2160 EXT. masT HOUSE - momeNTS LATER\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Louis climbs from his carriage just as Henry rounds the house and freezes -- stunned to see him.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 Louis\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 Afternoon, son. Is your father here?\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Henry doesn't answer. Intimidated on every level.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 LoUIS\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 I asked you a question. It's impolite not to answer. That is unless you're dumb. You're not dumb, are you, boy?\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Louis approaches Henry. Each step further illustrating how small Henry is to him.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 WALTER (o.S.)\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 Go on inside, Henry.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Louis turns to see Walter only a few steps away.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 WALTER\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s5\fi-140\ri4320\li4320 (to Henry)\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 Go on.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Henry runs inside.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 LOUIS\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 Afternoon, Mr. Mast. My name is Louis--\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 WALTER\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 I know who you are. I'm not interested.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 LOUIS\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 You haven't heard my offer.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 WALTER\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 I ain't selling. Not now. Not ever.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 LOUIS\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 Then I guess I made the trip out here for nothing.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Louis is still wearing his salesman's smile. Walter's not buying, and damn sure he ain't selling.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 LOUIS\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 Well be that as it may, I'm already here. I might as well unburden myself of my proposal. }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 T}{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 welve cents an acre would be more than a smart sprinkle but I can tell you're a shaver and I don't aim to waste your time. Thirteen cents.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Walter spits. Louis can't believe it. He's amused by a hard bargain.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 LOUIS\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 Sakes you are a shaver. All right, Mr. Mast. You win. Best offer. Eighteen cents on the acre. That's a right smart deal. Far more than it's worth. Especially considering its current state. What say you to that, sir?\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 WaLTER\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 Appreciate your offer, Mr. Sutter. The answer is no.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Walter turns, heads back toward the fields. \par Louis is beside himself with rage.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \i\sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 This shouldn't be here.}{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 \par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 LOUIS\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 You turn your back on me?\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Walter turns back, cautious of the tiger he's uncaged.\par Louis's demeanor has flipped. The salesman's smile has been replaced by a venomous rage.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 LOUIS\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 I offered you a fair deal. }{\pard\plain \ql \ul\sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 A fair deal.}{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 \par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 WALTER\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 I meant no disrespect Mr. Sutter--\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 LOUIS\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 Money is respect! I offered you mine and you turned your back to me. You're going to regret this.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Louis storms back to his carriage.\par Walter looks uneasy. Sees Henry staring at him from the front door. \par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb480\f66\fs24\sl180\s2\fi0\ri1440\li2160 iNT. small town bank - DAY\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 A satchel is dropped onto the Bank Official's desk. The size and weight of which could hold a lot of money.\par He looks up to see Louis wearing a devious smile.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 LOUIS\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 Good afternoon.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb480\f66\fs24\sl180\s2\fi0\ri1440\li2160 eXT. maST FARM - eVENING\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Walter exits his house to find the Bank Official on his front door step with an apologetic nervousness.\par Walter spots Louis a few yards away. Smirking.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 WALTER\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 What are you doing here?\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 LOUIS\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 I've come for restitution.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 WaLTER\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s5\fi-140\ri4320\li4320 (to Bank Official)\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 What have you done?\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 BANK OFFICIAL\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 I'm sorry, Walter.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 LOUIS\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 The bank was wise enough to sell me your loan. You see, they know a smart deal when they see one.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 WALTER\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 You can't do that.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 BANK OFFICIAL\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 We didn't have a choice. You're over head and ears. Mr. Sutter paid in full.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 LOUIS\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 Don't worry, Walter, I'm not a hard hearted man. You have till the end of the week to square even. Which by my account is three months plus interest. Then it's mine.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Walter looks he's about to explode. Somewhere between tears and rage.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 WaLTER\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s5\fi-140\ri4320\li4320 (to Bank Official)\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 Please. My wife is buried in this land.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Shamefaced, Bank Official can't even look at Walter.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 LOUIS\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 You mean my land.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Walter's torrid eyes peg Louis's smug, haughty face so hard it could leave marks.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb480\f66\fs24\sl180\s2\fi0\ri1440\li2160 EXT. praIRIE - afterNOON\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Henry and Mary trudge over the terrain in step.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 HeNRY\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 What's school like?\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 Mary\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 I dunno. Fun I guess. My Daddy says anyone worth their salt has an education. You've never been?\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 HENRY\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 Pa won't let me.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 MARY\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 How come?\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 HENRY\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 He needs my help on the farm.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 MARY\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 You aren't there now.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 HENRY\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 I hate that place. Besides, I'd rather be with you.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 MARY\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 Maybe you could come live with us.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Henry looks rocked by the possibility. A meager jolt of hope.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb480\f66\fs24\sl180\s2\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Ext. Creek - sunSET\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Henry and Mary come to a small creek. Henry dashes across a fallen log to cross it.\par Mary attempts to traverse the log but it's unstable, wobbling  under her weight. She's nervous and looks as if she's going in the creek.\par Suddenly Henry appears back on the log. He grabs her by the hand and leads her to the other side.\par Once off the log Henry notices Mary doesn't let go of his hand. He likes it.\par They head toward her house, hand in hand. Each one stealing little glimpses and giggles at each other.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 LOUIS (o.S.)\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 Let go of her!\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Henry looks shocked. Sees Louis thundering toward them.\par Louis shoves Henry away from Mary. Hard.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 LOUIS\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 Don't ever put hands on my daughter.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s5\fi-140\ri4320\li4320 (to Mary)\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 You are never to see this boy again. Never! Do you understand?\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Mary begins to tear up. She doesn't understand.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 MARY\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 But... why?\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 LOUIS\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 Because I said. Now get inside the house!\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 MARY\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 But Daddy--\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 LOUIS\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 I said get!\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 With tears in her eyes Mary runs to the house.\par Louis turns his attention back to Henry.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 LOUIS\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 Your father put you up to this?\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 HeNRY\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s5\fi-140\ri4320\li4320 (confused)\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 No, sir.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 LOUIS\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 Yeah, sure. He is a salty mop isn't he?\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 HENRY\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 I'm not like him.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 LOUIS\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 What do you possibly think you have to offer my daughter? You come from nothing. You are nothing. You are your father's son. Don't ever go near my daughter again.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Louis leaves Henry broken-hearted in the last bit of sunset. Darkness is coming.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb480\f66\fs24\sl180\s2\fi0\ri1440\li2160 INT. maST houSE - nIGHT\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 A cast iron skillet drops to the floor with a CLANG as the steak Walter was cooking in it falls out. Walter cries out, having burned himself by the fire.\par He wraps his hand in a towel, muffling curses. He takes a swig from his whiskey bottle to help dull the pain.\par Henry storms in.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 WALTER\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 Get that steak off the floor will ya?\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 HeNRY\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s5\fi-140\ri4320\li4320 (re: the whiskey)\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 Looks like you've already had dinner.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 WALTER\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 Watch the sass, boy. Where you been? I can never find you. I need your help around here. I'm trying to save the farm.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 HENRY\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 You couldn't even save ma.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Walter slaps Henry across the face. Immediately regretting it.\par A tear rolls down Henry's face but he doesn't whimper. Instead he stares into Walter with contempt.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 HENRY\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 I hate you.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Henry heads to his room. Walter is left hating himself.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb480\f66\fs24\sl180\s2\fi0\ri1440\li2160 inT. sUTTER HOUSE - louis's office - nIGHT\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Louis reads over documents by lantern light. His wife Elizabeth fills the doorway.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 Elizabeth\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 She's stopped crying... if you're interested.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 ELIZABETH\par }{\pard\plain \ql \i\sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 This dialogue shouldn't be here.}{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 \par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Louis puts his paperwork down. Of course he's interested.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb480\f66\fs24\sl180\s2\fi0\ri1440\li2160 INT. sUTTER HOUSE - mary's room - nIGHT\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Louis peeks in. Mary's on her bed, her back to the door. Louis crosses the room, sits gingerly on her bed. Takes his time finding the right words.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 LOUIS\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 I'm only trying to do what's best by you. Someday you'll understand.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 No response from Mary. Louis considers leaving for a beat.\par Mary gets up, climbs into her father's arms and hugs him tight. He hugs her back. Hard to say 'I love you' when you're upset but it doesn't mean you can't show it.\par }{\pard\plain \qr \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s7\fi0\ri2020\li7920 FADE OUT.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 FADE IN:\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb480\f66\fs24\sl180\s2\fi0\ri1440\li2160 eXT. mAST FARM - DAY\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s9\fi0\ri1440\li2160 (WALTER)\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Abashed, Walter stands before his wife's grave, wringing his hands.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 WALTER\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s5\fi-140\ri4320\li4320 (softly)\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 I don't know what to do. Sure could use your advice.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 As if an answer -- \par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb480\f66\fs24\sl180\s8\fi0\ri1440\li2160 A ROCKY MOUNTAIN LOCUST lands on his wife's grave marker.\par }{\pard\plain \qc \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s1\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Production note: grave marker is a weathered cross.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Walter studies it, looking for meaning.\par After a moment it flutters away.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb480\f66\fs24\sl180\s2\fi0\ri1440\li2160 inT. sUTTER HOUSE - DAY\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Mary combs through the hair of her doll. Suddenly there's a PLINK of something against her window.\par Mary goes to the window to investigate. \par Below: Henry, waves for her to come outside.\par Mary's face lights up when she sees him.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb480\f66\fs24\sl180\s2\fi0\ri1440\li2160 EXT. maST FARM - DAY\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 A plow share chews up earth as it goes. \par Walter's in the field running it behind his horse.\par Suddenly the horse stops.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 WALTER\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 Come on.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Walter snaps the reigns but his horse doesn't respond.\par Frustrated Walter moves beside it. Smacks it on the butt. Nothing. He tries again -- slapping it so hard the horse rears up -- knocks Walter to the ground -- \par   The horse breaks from the field, dragging the plow behind.\par Walter can only watch as it jangles and digs, puncturing his land in a Morse code of destruction.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 WALTER\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 No!\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 The horse barrels right into his wife's grave. Destroying the cross. Ripping soil like an open wound.\par Walter clenches his jaw. Lets out a roar. He's had enough...\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb480\f66\fs24\sl180\s2\fi0\ri1440\li2160 eXT. suTTER HOUSE - DAY\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Henry and Mary hide behind a tree in her back yard.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 HENRY\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 There's a train tonight. Well have to go on the fly and hide in the cow crate so the bulls don't get us. When we get to Lincoln we'll find a flop. I'll get work in a factory. You'll have to work too.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Mary looks dismayed by his plan.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 MARY\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 I don't want to leave.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 HENRY\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 It's okay. I'm scared too. We'll be fine.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 MARY\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 That's easy for you to say you're not leaving anything behind.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Henry is stunned. She's never insulted him before.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 HENRY\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 It's the only way we can be together.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Mary hesitates... can barely speak.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 MARY\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 I don't want to go.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Henry sinks back. Crestfallen.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb480\f66\fs24\sl180\s2\fi0\ri1440\li2160 INT. sUTTER HOUSE - same time\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Louis scans the house.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 LOUIS\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 Mary?\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb480\f66\fs24\sl180\s2\fi0\ri1440\li2160 back outside with mary and henry\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Henry grabs Mary's hand.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 HENRY\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 If I leave now you're never going to see me again.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 He waits for sign from Mary but she offers none. Can't even meet his eyes. \par Defeated Henry stands. Instantly he's yanked back down by Mary.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 MARY\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 Okay.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Her eyes are heavy with sadness but at least they look at Henry. It's enough.\par Henry tends a soft smile. Happy she's coming.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 HENRY\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 Okay.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Henry rises just as a hand clamps down on him from behind -- throws him across the lawn.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 LOUIS\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 What did I tell you? \par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 MARY\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 Daddy, no!\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Henry tries to get up but Louis shoves him further across the lawn. Advancing faster than he can react.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 LOUIS\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 What were the words I spoke?\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Another shove.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 LOUIS\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 If you've forgotten than perhaps I need to beat them into your memory.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Louis raises his fist to strike Henry.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 LOUIS\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 Keep away from my--\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 CRACK! A SHOT rings out. \par Louis jolts as his shoulder dribbles blood, nipped by the bullet that just whizzed by him. A flesh wound.\par Walter stands thirty yards away. Staring down the smoking barrel of his Winchester rifle.\par His tone is measured and firm.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 WALTER\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 Step away from my boy.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Mary screams. Runs in the house.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 LOUIS\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 You shot me. You fuddled dolt.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Mouth agape, Henry scrutinizes Walter. Unsure if he fired a warning shot or if he's so drunk he missed.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 LOUIS\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 You'll be in the calaboose by dinner. I'll see to that. You've dug your own grave.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Walter cocks the lever on his rifle. \par Henry can see now: that was no warning shot. \par Louis sees it too. Finally as nervous as he should be.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 LOUIS\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 Wait a minute now. Hold on...\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Walter takes aim.\par Suddenly Elizabeth emerges from the house with Louis's rifle trained on Walter. Mary just behind her.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 HeNRY\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 No!\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Walter sees her.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 elIZABETH\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 I'm a God fearing woman, mister, but if you don't get that rifle off my husband I'll bury you.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Eyes dart from side-to-side. Who will be the first to flinch?\par Nobody moves. The air so thick with tension no one even breathes.\par Walter refocuses on Louis. Resigned to whatever fate comes after. He fingers the trigger. Ready.\par Suddenly a locust lands on Walter's gun barrel.\par Walter studies it. Perplexed.\par Is it a sign from his wife?\par Another locust zips by. Then another.\par The sunlight dims on everyone -- as if a large cloud has moved overhead.\par Then comes the noise: the strange, awful BUZZING. Growing louder with each second. Getting closer.\par Everyone can feel it. Something's not right.\par Mary's the first to look up. Her eyes going wide. Mouth agape.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 MARY\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 Daddy...\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Louis looks to the sky. The dread washing over his face too.\par Finally Walter pries his focus from Louis. Gazes to the heavens.\par The sky is alive in a swarm of locusts. Millions of them. Enough to block the sun, and every other inch of sky.\par Walter lowers his rifle in sheer awe.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 WALTER\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 My God.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Louis stumbles toward the house.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 LOUIS\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 Inside! Everybody inside!\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Everyone rushes for the house as the swarm descends at them.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb480\f66\fs24\sl180\s2\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Int./ext. SUTTER HOUSE - front door - conTINUOUS\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Elizabeth pushes Mary inside. Louis pulls the screen door tight behind.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 ELIZABETH\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 What are you doing?\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Henry and Walter scramble for the porch. Swatting locusts as they go.\par Henry gets to the door first. He jerks at the handle but Louis holds it fast.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 HeNRY\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 Let us in.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Henry jerks at the door to no avail.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 MARY\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 Let him in.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 ELIZABETH\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 Louis, please.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 The locusts are everywhere now. Engulfing the landscape. The ground turning to a living carpet of hungry insects.\par Walter finally makes it to the porch.\par Louis lets go of the door -- grabs his rifle from Elizabeth -- raises it in time to meet Walter's. Both men are face-to-face with each other's guns.\par Locusts crawl across Walter but he doesn't flinch. This could be his chance to kill Louis.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 HeNRY\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 Mr. Sutter--\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 MARY\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 Daddy...\par }{\pard\plain \ql \caps\sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s4\fi0\ri1800\li5040 LOUIS\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s5\fi-140\ri4320\li4320 (to Walter)\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb0\f66\fs24\sl180\s6\fi0\ri3600\li3600 You're not getting in here with that rifle.\par }{\pard\plain \ql \sb240\f66\fs24\sl180\s3\fi0\ri1440\li2160 Walter stares into Louis's cold eyes. \par He can hear Henry screaming, struggling to wipe the locusts clean. They need to get inside fast.\par }}